in the end the only thing I saw was a
flash an insufferable burning light the
pain ripping apart my body okay so I've
got to put my hands up right away and
say that I was totally wrong about coal
at when I mentioned it in my five
exciting survival games for 2015 video
there was not that much info around for
it and from what I could piece together
in my tiny mind from the blurb and the
gameplay available I was thinking it was
gonna be something like outlast meets
the long dark narrated by Sean Bean but
yeah I was wrong and maybe slightly
disappointed but not about the Sean Bean
bit
I am right behind you
the closest comparison to Cola would
actually be dear Esther which is a bit
of a Marmite game some love it some
hater and hex some people don't even
think it is a game I play dear Esther
but it never really appealed to me to be
honest I thought it was a bit boring the
creators of Cola didn't share my opinion
though they loved it so much inspired
the direction of this game and now it
turns out the final product will be a
narrative driven exploration game where
a brooding atmosphere is punctuated with
a few moments of horror guaranteed to
make your skin crawl I played it to
hour-long segment which takes place
about midway into the game starting
stranded and lonely on a frozen lake it
was dark and disorienting and there was
Sean Bean in my ears you know at the
beginning I wanted to make things right
I believed God
there's no objective market to following
Cholet in this portion of the game the
aim was to explore the mountain and find
a series of notes hidden around the
landscape there's not much to help you
with this task you just get a map and a
compass and then you're left to your own
devices the thing is coal out which is
due for release on the 25th of April
isn't really about the gameplay there
are slight gameplay elements in there I
mean you can be killed by natural or
unnatural events and you have to
navigate a multiple path landscape to
find clues to unravel the plot but the
main objective the developers have with
colla is to tell a compelling story they
want the mystery of why you're up on
this mountain to push you forward and
they do a really good job of encouraging
this by creating a well-written
narrative that is based on a real-life
spooky happening called the dialer Toph
pass incident that is how you
there's no real official explanation for
the dialer Tov pass incident so the
developers of Cola have come up with
their own and it's by exploring and
finding notes left by fellow
Mountaineers that you can start piecing
together their version of events
although I got nowhere near the bottom
of this mystery in my playthrough it's
safe to say Colette is going the
supernatural route because spotting
ghosties on the mountainside is not a
rare occurrence there are two types of
ghosts you'll come across yellow ones
which seemed more like echoes of past
events than actual ghosts and then there
are these dark orange ones which are
easy to avoid but will attack you if you
get too close resulting in an insta-kill
the majority of these run-ins seem
scripted though so you'll get none of
those I regard something stalking me
feelings that you'll get from a game of
slender in fact a lot of the game will
be taken up with just walking around
looking at mountains and reading stuff
which for a lot of gamers will probably
get pretty dull there are a few standout
moments though a real jaw-dropper for me
came after about an hour into the demo
when I pushed through a tree line and
was confronted by a frozen river as the
music began to rise the ghostly figures
who stood upon it began running from
something I turned to look and behind me
a huge cloud of orange fog and risen up
and was consuming the surrounding
woodland I turned and ran with the
ghosts following them up a hill the fog
crept into my peripheral vision and then
it was all around me
I made it out safely though and later as
I wandered back along my escape route
the once lush snow-covered trees were
now smoldering husks the bark still
covered in glowing embers whatever that
fog was had killed everything in its
path and the thoughts and to shiver down
my spine
kolja been created in Unreal Engine 4
has some stunningly beautiful visuals
and set pieces there were quite a few
times when I just stood on the side of a
cliff staring out of the world the crisp
graphics and the haunting audio come
together to create a world so immersive
it really is a shame that so far there
has been no VR support officially
announced a game like this that already
has so much atmosphere would be a
perfect fit if the idea of an
interactive novel sounds boring to you
then this game will definitely leave you
out in the cold if however you are
looking for an experience a bit more
cerebral than your ordinary game a
slow-paced whodunit filled with riddles
and unanswered questions then coal app
might be for you this is a game about
finding answers about searching for
yourself as well as others there's as
many unanswered questions in kholat as
there are in the real life event it's
inspired by but with colla you might
just be able to find out the answers as
long as you're curious and patient
enough to brave the horrors of the
mountain all by yourself
you